[Doc] Add EN datasets.md in dev-1.x (#2464)
open-mmlab/mmsegmentation: docs/en/advanced_guides/datasets.md

The segmentation label would re-map class information by `label_map`, [here](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmsegmentation/blob/dev-1.x/mmseg/datasets/basesegdataset.py#L151) is detailed implementation:

```python
gt_semantic_seg_copy = gt_semantic_seg.copy()
for old_id, new_id in results['label_map'].items():
    gt_semantic_seg[gt_semantic_seg_copy == old_id] = new_id
```

- Modified by `reduce_zero_label`
  In common case of ignoring label 0, subclass of `BaseSegDataset` can implement whether to ignore label 0 by passing `reduce_zero_label` (default to `False`) argument.
  When `reduce_zero_label` is `True` (such as ADE20K dataset), label 0 in segmentation annotations would be set as 255 (MMSegmentation would ignore label 255 in calculating loss) and index of other labels would minus 1:

```python
gt_semantic_seg[gt_semantic_seg == 0] = 255
gt_semantic_seg = gt_semantic_seg - 1
gt_semantic_seg[gt_semantic_seg == 254] = 255
```

## Dataset and Data Transform Pipeline

> Commonly used interface example shows that the data transform pipeline argument `pipeline` and return value of dataset `__getitem__` method are both defined in input argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example of the Common Interface section shows that the data transform pipeline argument `pipeline` and return value of dataset `__getitem__` method are both defined in input argument.
```

## Commonly Used Interfaces

Take Cityscapes for example, if you want to run the example below, please download and [preprocess](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmsegmentation/blob/dev-1.x/docs/en/user_guides/2_dataset_prepare.md#cityscapes)
Cityscapes dataset in `data` directory first.

Instantiate Cityscapes training dataset:

```python
from mmseg.datasets import CityscapesDataset
from mmseg.utils import register_all_modules
register_all_modules()

data_root = 'data/cityscapes/'
data_prefix=dict(img_path='leftImg8bit/train', seg_map_path='gtFine/train')
train_pipeline = [
    dict(type='LoadImageFromFile'),
    dict(type='LoadAnnotations'),
    dict(type='RandomCrop', crop_size=(512, 1024), cat_max_ratio=0.75),
    dict(type='RandomFlip', prob=0.5),
    dict(type='PackSegInputs')
]

dataset = CityscapesDataset(data_root=data_root, data_prefix=data_prefix, test_mode=False, pipeline=train_pipeline)
```

Check out the length of training set:

```python
print(len(dataset))

2975
```

Acquire data information, the type of data information is `dict`. It includes path of images in `'img_path'` field and path of segmentation labels in `'seg_map_path'` field,

> it also has `'label_map'` field and `'reduce_zero_label'` filed (their functions would be introduced in the next section) and `'seg_fields'` field for saving label which have been loaded, `'sample_idx'` field for index of current sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 and has `'label_map'` field and `'reduce_zero_label'` filed (their functions would be introduced in the next section) and `'seg_fields'` field for saving label which have been loaded, `'sample_idx'` field for index of current sample.
```

```python
# Acquire data information of first sample in dataset
print(dataset.get_data_info(0))

{'img_path': 'data/cityscapes/leftImg8bit/train/aachen/aachen_000000_000019_leftImg8bit.png',
 'seg_map_path': 'data/cityscapes/gtFine/train/aachen/aachen_000000_000019_gtFine_labelTrainIds.png',
 'label_map': None,
 'reduce_zero_label': False,
 'seg_fields': [],
 'sample_idx': 0}
```

> Acquire dataset meta information, the type of MMSegmentation meta information is also `dict`. It includes `'classes'` field for dataset classes and `'palette'` field for corresponding colors in visualization.
> It also has `'label_map'` field and `'reduce_zero_label'` filed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get dataset meta information: the type of MMSegmentation meta information is also `dict`, which includes `'classes'` field for dataset classes and `'palette'` field for corresponding colors in visualization, and has `'label_map'` field and `'reduce_zero_label'` filed.
```

     DATA FIELDS
     gt_sem_seg: <PixelData(

             META INFORMATION

             DATA FIELDS
             data: tensor([[[2, 2, 2,  ..., 8, 8, 8],
                          [2, 2, 2,  ..., 8, 8, 8],
                          [2, 2, 2,  ..., 8, 8, 8],
                          ...,
                          [0, 0, 0,  ..., 0, 0, 0],
                          [0, 0, 0,  ..., 0, 0, 0],
                          [0, 0, 0,  ..., 0, 0, 0]]])
         )>
     _gt_sem_seg: <PixelData(

             META INFORMATION

             DATA FIELDS
             data: tensor([[[2, 2, 2,  ..., 8, 8, 8],
                          [2, 2, 2,  ..., 8, 8, 8],
                          [2, 2, 2,  ..., 8, 8, 8],
                          ...,
                          [0, 0, 0,  ..., 0, 0, 0],
                          [0, 0, 0,  ..., 0, 0, 0],
                          [0, 0, 0,  ..., 0, 0, 0]]])
         )>
 )}
```

## BaseSegDataset

Because basic functions of every dataset class in MMSegmentation all include loading dataset information after [preprocessing](https://mmsegmentation.readthedocs.io/en/dev-1.x/advanced_guides/models.html#id2) and sending data into data transform pipeline,

> thus the common interface is refactored as [`BaseSegDataset`](https://mmsegmentation.readthedocs.io/en/dev-1.x/api.html?highlight=BaseSegDataset#mmseg.datasets.BaseSegDataset) in MMSegmentation. It inherits

Reviewer: need to be refined

```

It can be found that the class of dataset meta information is different from default setting of Cityscapes dataset. Moreover, `label_map` field is also defined, which is used for modifying label index of each pixel on segmentation mask.
The segmentation label would re-map class information by `label_map`, [here](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmsegmentation/blob/dev-1.x/mmseg/datasets/basesegdataset.py#L151) is detailed implementation:

```python
gt_semantic_seg_copy = gt_semantic_seg.copy()
for old_id, new_id in results['label_map'].items():
    gt_semantic_seg[gt_semantic_seg_copy == old_id] = new_id
```

- Modified by `reduce_zero_label`
  To ignore label 0 (such as ADE20K dataset), we can use `reduce_zero_label` (default to `False`) argument of BaseSegDataset and its subclasses.
  When `reduce_zero_label` is `True`, label 0 in segmentation annotations would be set as 255 (models of MMSegmentation would ignore label 255 in calculating loss) and indices of other labels will minus 1:

```python
gt_semantic_seg[gt_semantic_seg == 0] = 255
gt_semantic_seg = gt_semantic_seg - 1
gt_semantic_seg[gt_semantic_seg == 254] = 255
```

## Dataset and Data Transform Pipeline

> The example of the Common Interface section shows that the data transform pipeline argument `pipeline` and return value of dataset `__getitem__` method are both defined in input argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the argument `pipeline` is defined, the return value of `__getitem__` method is after data argument.
```

# Dataset

> Dataset classes in MMSegmentation have two functions: (1) load dataset information after [data preparation](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmsegmentation/blob/dev-1.x/docs/en/user_guides/2_dataset_prepare.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dataset classes in MMSegmentation have two functions: (1) load data information after [data preparation](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmsegmentation/blob/dev-1.x/docs/en/user_guides/2_dataset_prepare.md)
```

and (2) send data into [dataset transform pipeline](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmsegmentation/blob/dev-1.x/mmseg/datasets/basesegdataset.py#L141) to do [data augmentation](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmsegmentation/blob/dev-1.x/docs/zh_cn/advanced_guides/transforms.md).

> There are 2 kinds of data information: (1) meta information which is original dataset information such as categories (classes) of dataset and their corresponding palette information, (2) data information which includes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 2 kinds of loaded information: (1) meta information which is original dataset information such as categories (classes) of dataset and their corresponding palette information, (2) data information which includes
```

Cityscapes dataset in `data` directory, before running the demo code:

Instantiate Cityscapes training dataset:

```python
from mmseg.datasets import CityscapesDataset
from mmseg.utils import register_all_modules
register_all_modules()

data_root = 'data/cityscapes/'
data_prefix=dict(img_path='leftImg8bit/train', seg_map_path='gtFine/train')
train_pipeline = [
    dict(type='LoadImageFromFile'),
    dict(type='LoadAnnotations'),
    dict(type='RandomCrop', crop_size=(512, 1024), cat_max_ratio=0.75),
    dict(type='RandomFlip', prob=0.5),
    dict(type='PackSegInputs')
]

dataset = CityscapesDataset(data_root=data_root, data_prefix=data_prefix, test_mode=False, pipeline=train_pipeline)
```

Get the length of training set:

```python
print(len(dataset))

2975
```

Get data information: The type of data information is `dict` which includes several keys:
-  `'img_path'`: path of images
-  `'seg_map_path'`: path of segmentation labels
- `'seg_fields'`: saving label fields
- `'sample_idx'`: the  index of the current sample

> There are also `'label_map'` and `'reduce_zero_label'` whose functions would be introduced in the next section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

There are also `'label_map'` and `'reduce_zero_label'` whose functions would be introduced in the next section.
```

 )}
```

## BaseSegDataset

As mentioned above, dataset classes have the same functions, we implemented  [`BaseSegDataset`](https://mmsegmentation.readthedocs.io/en/dev-1.x/api.html?highlight=BaseSegDataset#mmseg.datasets.BaseSegDataset) to reues the common functions.
It inherits [`BaseDataset` of MMEngine](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmengine/blob/main/docs/en/advanced_tutorials/basedataset.md) and follows unified initialization process of OpenMMLab. It supports the highly effective interior storing format, some functions like
dataset concatenation and repeatedly sampling. In MMSegmentation `BaseSegDataset`, the **method of loading data information** (`load_data_list`) is redefined and adds new `get_label_map` method to **modify dataset classes information**.

### Loading Dataset Information

The loaded data information includes the path of images samples and annotations samples, the detailed implementation could be found in
[`load_data_list`](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmsegmentation/blob/163277bfe0fa8fefb63ee5137917fafada1b301c/mmseg/datasets/basesegdataset.py#L231) of `BaseSegDataset` in MMSegmentation.
There are two main methods to acquire the path of images and labels:

> 1. Load file paths according to the dirictory and suffix of input images and annotations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Load file paths according to the dirictory and suffix of input images and annotations

```

│   │   │   │   ├── ADE_train_00000001.png
│   │   │   │   ├── ...
│   │   │   │── validation
│   │   │   │   ├── ADE_val_00000001.png
│   │   │   │   ├── ...
│   │   ├── images
│   │   │   ├── training
│   │   │   │   ├── ADE_train_00000001.jpg
│   │   │   │   ├── ...
│   │   │   ├── validation
│   │   │   │   ├── ADE_val_00000001.jpg
│   │   │   │   ├── ...
```

```python
from mmseg.datasets import ADE20KDataset

ADE20KDataset(data_root = 'data/ade/ADEChallengeData2016',
    data_prefix=dict(img_path='images/training', seg_map_path='annotations/training'),
    img_suffix='.jpg',
    seg_map_suffix='.png',
    reduce_zero_label=True)
```

2. Load file paths from annotation file

Dataset also can load an annotation file which includes the data sample paths of dataset. 
Take PascalContext dataset instance as an example, its input annotation file is:

```python
2008_000008
...
```

It needs to define `ann_file` when instantiation:

```python
PascalContextDataset(data_root='data/VOCdevkit/VOC2010/',
    data_prefix=dict(img_path='JPEGImages', seg_map_path='SegmentationClassContext'),
    ann_file='ImageSets/SegmentationContext/train.txt')
```

### Modification of Dataset Classes

> - Use `metainfo` input argument

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use `metainfo` input argument

```

  [0, 0, 70],
  [0, 60, 100],
  [0, 80, 100],
  [0, 0, 230],
  [119, 11, 32],
  [128, 64, 128],
  [244, 35, 232],
  [70, 70, 70],
  [102, 102, 156],
  [190, 153, 153],
  [153, 153, 153],
  [250, 170, 30],
  [220, 220, 0],
  [107, 142, 35],
  [152, 251, 152],
  [70, 130, 180],
  [220, 20, 60],
  [255, 0, 0]],
 # pixels whose label index are 255 would be ignored when calculating loss
 'label_map': {0: 255,
  1: 255,
  2: 255,
  3: 255,
  4: 255,
  5: 255,
  6: 255,
  7: 255,
  8: 255,
  9: 255,
  10: 255,
  11: 255,
  12: 255,
  13: 0,
  14: 1,
  15: 2,
  16: 3,
  17: 4,
  18: 5},
 'reduce_zero_label': False}
```

Meta information is different from default setting of Cityscapes dataset. Moreover, `label_map` field is also defined, which is used for modifying label index of each pixel on segmentation mask.
The segmentation label would re-map class information by `label_map`, [here](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmsegmentation/blob/dev-1.x/mmseg/datasets/basesegdataset.py#L151) is detailed implementation:

```python
gt_semantic_seg_copy = gt_semantic_seg.copy()
for old_id, new_id in results['label_map'].items():
    gt_semantic_seg[gt_semantic_seg_copy == old_id] = new_id
```

> - Modified by `reduce_zero_label`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Using `reduce_zero_label` input argument

```
